# Using NLP to Predict the Likelihood of Certain Types of Negative Events Occurring with Medical Devices
Medical devices are known to save, extend, or made better millions of lives. However, according to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), more than 1.7 million injuries and nearly 83,000 deaths are suspected of being linked to medical devices over 10 years and reported to the U.S. alone. Additionally, the ICIJ noted that the U.S. had more than 26,700 device recalls while India — with more than a billion people — had just 14 from 2013 to 2017. It is important to consider though that this could be due to the U.S. having more rigorous testing and mandatory regulations and the possibility that medical devices were utilized more in the U.S. than in India. Patients often are the last to be informed about malfunctioning devices. Thus, this capstone project aims to create a prediction model to determine whether a medical device will be issued a recall, a safety alert, a field safety notice, or a combination of two or more of them via NLP.

The International Medical Devices Database will be used for analysis in this project. It is licensed under the Open Database License and its contents under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license. It is also available for download by the link: https://medicaldevices.icij.org/p/download.

The results of this project can help medical practitioners make better decisions on which medical devices to use with the most minimization of risks as well as patients to be better informed on which medical devices they want to receive. Also, this project can give indications to manufacturers on how to better design medical devices with reduction to injury and mortality.
